A placeholder for a story about a man who got into a rabbit hole.
For now let's just say there was ESP32, STM32, nrf52840 and RP2040 

This drafty story supposed to log the journey. Not the destination. Other pages should be browsed for TL;DR

>⚠️ I will try my best to not make it a big rant, but during this journey I learned a lot of words that are mostly used for swearing so let's see how it goes.

### Past
A few years ago I saw my friend buying ZSA Moonlander and I checked it and it looked fancy and I ordered it too. At that time I did not know but it was the beginning of my ergo keeb journey.
I received mine first and I started creating layouts. Investigating what would be a community liked layout. That quickly led me to ColemakDH. Because I was on 5 week paternity leave looking after newborn meant that my day will be like a Swiss cheese. I had random 15min time windows scattered all over the day(and night). Because I was time constrained and too tired to pick up any bigger task that was perfect time to go cold turkey and switch away from qwerty.
It turned out that 20 years of etching those qwerty patterns into my brain was not that easy to unlearn, however accepting upfront that it's just a long process helped. After all it's the same thing, whether it's delivering a complex project at work or learning a music instrument or learning to surf. Learning a new thing and doing it good you just need time and motivation.
By the time my friend received his keyboard I was already going wild with mine. Then quickly he got very disappointed by it. ZSA turned out to have more closed source than he would accept from the company that delivers devices that handles your input. It was one of those 'once you see, you cannot unsee' moments for me. As I started browsing for alternatives I discovered Keyboardio 100 kickstarter that I just couldn't pass on. I loved everything about them and what they stood for. So I joined the waiting list. At the same time shortages of chips and abundance of viruses started happening but eventually that keyboard was in my hands.
At the time when I was customizing my Keyboardio 100 I already knew - I want my keys to be silent even if it meant loosing tactile/clicky properties. When the keyboard came, it was almost exactly what I was hoping for. I am using it for 1.5 years and I am still loving it. However after 3 years of ergo mechanical keyboards now I got a taste of what I like and want to keep and what I would like to improve on. 
I should mention besides my keyboard obsessions I am learning nix(os), programming in Rust, electronics, Blender, KiCAD. I am a DIY minded person who loves creating things. I love modeling with CAD programs. Working with wood, electronics, 3d printing and professionally I am obsessed with adjectives like `autonomous`, `automated`,  `declarative`.  So this keyboard project feels like it was a missing piece to connect all of those passions together and I am really enjoying the journey I made with it so far.
### Present
For the last few weeks I have been trying to figure out the missing pieces on how to make my own keyboard and I have to admit I am balancing on a breaking point. I am feeling this project has consumed me. It feels every path I am trying to take brings me to another dead end and every objective that I have set myself I need to drop as a ballast to keep myself afloat. However talking helps. A lot. And during one of my desperate rants to my wife, she gave me this brilliant idea. To document my struggles. Perhaps then it would give me some clarity. A map of things that need to happen that I could systematically crumble into smaller tasks and tackle them rather than keep everything in my head and from 5 a.m. be awake and in an infinite loop try to hop from one problem to another without getting anywhere. And here we are. This is my effort to do so. 
I am very bad at taking notes. I scribble some words that make sense at a time, but when I try to retrieve information from them that text by then is alien to me and I have no idea what I meant when writing those things down.
But there are few ways to go about *I am very bad at...*  things. Over my years I learned that this just means that I need to put time and effort. Yes, it's that easy, just `time` and `effort` 😅
So here I am, trying to lay down this information in my head into some structure, a plan, a story and if this will be helpful for me alone, this already have been a success. If that will help some other lost soul, all the better.
### Future
As for the future. It really depends on previously mentioned `time` and `effort`. But if I will have those, I am hoping to have a very interesting ride.
